# NLP-AUTOMATIC_TICKET_ASSIGNMENT
This is an project for NLP processing for an automation ticket assignment of incoming tickets.


In the support process, incoming incidents are analyzed and assessed by the organization's support teams to fulfill the request. In many organizations, better allocation and effective usage of the valuable support resources will directly result in substantial cost savings. Currently the incidents are created by various stakeholders (Business Users, IT Users and Monitoring Tools) within the IT Service Management Tool and are assigned to Service Desk teams (L1/ L2 teams). This team will review the incidents for right ticket categorization, priorities and then carry out initial diagnosis to see if they can resolve. Around ~54% of the incidents are resolved by L1 / L2 teams. Incase L1 / L2 is unable to resolve, they will then escalate / assign the tickets to Functional teams from Applications and Infrastructure (L3 teams). Some portions of incidents are directly assigned to L3 teams by either Monitoring tools or Callers / Requestors. L3 teams will carry out detailed diagnosis and resolve the incidents. Around ~56% of incidents are resolved by Functional / L3 teams. Incase if vendor support is needed, they will reach out for their support towards incident closure. L1 / L2 needs to spend time reviewing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) before assigning to Functional teams (Minimum ~25-30% of incidents needs to be reviewed for SOPs before ticket assignment). 15 min is being spent for SOP review for each incident. Minimum of ~1 FTE effort needed only for incident assignment to L3 teams.

During the process of incident assignments by L1 / L2 teams to functional groups, there were multiple instances of incidents getting assigned to wrong functional groups. Around ~25% of Incidents are wrongly assigned to functional teams. Additional effort needed for Functional teams to re-assign to the right functional groups. During this process, some of the incidents are in queue and not addressed timely resulting in poor customer service. Guided by powerful AI techniques that can classify incidents to right functional groups can help organizations to reduce the resolving time of the issue and can focus on more productive tasks.
